>>> THIS WEEK DEMOCRATS HELD A
HEARING ABOUT ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE TECHNOLOGY AND
IDEAS FOR REGULATION.
IN THIS SPACE WITH THESE FAST
BREAKTHROUGHS AND FEW RULES THE
HEARING ECHOES MANY
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THIS KIND OF
TECH TODAY.
THERE IS FEARS ABOUT ABUSE.
THERE IS A WHOLE RANGE OF
EXAMPLES FROM AUTOMATING JOBS
AND THINGS THAT MIGHT SAVE TIME
TO UPENDED NATIONAL SECURITY OR
HOW POLICE DO THEIR JOBS.
AND WE HEAR A LOT OF KIND OF
GENERAL PLATITUDES.
WELL SHALL TONIGHT WE TURN TO
NEWS IN ONE SPECIFIC WAY THAT
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
TECHNOLOGY IS CHANGING OUR WORLD
AND IT IS ABSOLUTELY REMARKABLE.
CURRENT MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY CAN
GATHER RICH INFORMATION ABOUT
BRAIN ACTIVITY.
WE KNEW THAT.
BUT NOW ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
LANGUAGE MODELS ARE PROVIDING A
NEW BREAKTHROUGH TO INTERPRET
THAT BRAIN INFORMATION.
NEW RESEARCH SHOWS THAT THE TECH
CAN HELP READ PEOPLE'S PRIVATE
THOUGHTS, THAT THE SCIENCE PLUS
THE TECH ENABLES MIND READING.
LET ME SAY THAT NEWS AGAIN
BECAUSE SOMETIMES AROUND HERE WE
JUST REPORT THE NEWS, RUN RIGHT
THROUGH IT AND YOU KINDA NEED TO
REALIZE WHAT WE'RE LEARNING.
I AM GOING TO SHOW YOU EXACTLY
WHAT WE MEAN BY THIS, BUT
RESEARCHERS ARE ACCURATELY
PERFORMING SOME HUMAN
MIND-READING.
THEY CAN TRANSLATE A PERSON'S
BRAIN ACTIVITY INTO A CONTINUOUS
STREAM OF TEXT.
SO THEN THAT TEXT CORRESPONDS TO
WHAT THE RESEARCHERS CAN
DETERMINE PEOPLE ARE THINKING.
AND THIS IS FROM FORMAL RESULTS
FROM A RESEARCH TEAM AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN.
NOW, THE NEW OPTION RAISES ALL
KINDS OF POSSIBILITIES.
ONE OF THE FIRST IS A MEDICAL
PRIORITY THAT THIS CAN ENABLE
PEOPLE WHO ARE CURRENTLY
PARALYZED OR COMPLETELY
PHYSICALLY IMPAIRED TO BASICALLY
GET A BRAND-NEW LEASE ON
COMMUNICATING.
THE RESEARCHERS FOCUSED ON
PICKING UP ATTEMPTED SPEECH OF
PEOPLE WHO HAVE LOST THE ABILITY
TO SPEAK OR USING THESE TOOLS TO
HELP PARALYZED PEOPLE IN A SENSE
WRITE BY THINKING.
OF WRITING.
SO THE TECH IS USING SCANS OF
BRAIN BLOOD FLOW AND IT
BASICALLY TRAINS THIS TRANSLATOR
OR THIS DECODER OF THAT BRAIN
INFORMATION.
AND THEY DO THIS BY HAVING
PARTICIPANTS CONSUME VIDEOS TO
MAP THEIR REACTIONS AND THE
INTENDED WORDS THEIR BRAIN WOULD
PICK ABOUT WHAT THEY ARE SEEING.
THE RESEARCHERS ARE USING IT TO
BECOME TRANSLATOR OF THE SUBJECT
AND THIS IS SUCCESSFULLY USED
BRAIN ACTIVITY TO ACCURATELY
DESCRIBE EVENTS FROM THE VIDEOS.
MEANING IT WORKS.
THEY ARE DOING THIS.
SO THE STUFF IN YOUR BRAIN THAT
DRIVES YOU TO PICK A WORD THAT'S
KIND OF WHAT HAPPENS BEFORE THE
WORD CAN ACTUALLY BE NOW READ
THROUGH THESE SOPHISTICATED
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE LANGUAGE
MODELS.
HENCE, MIND-READING.
THIS IS A DAZZLING ACTUAL
APPLIABLE TYPE OF TECHNOLOGY
THAT'S HERE RIGHT NOW.
SCIENTISTS SEE A POTENTIAL TO
GIVE A VOICE TO THE VOICELESS,
LIKE PARALYZED INDIVIDUALS I
JUST MENTIONED.
OTHERS LOOK DOWN THE ROAD,
ESPECIALLY HOW FAST THIS IS
GOING, AND SEE THE PROSPECT OF A
POWERFUL AND INVASIVE TECHNOLOGY
HERE.
LET'S REMEMBER I MENTIONED THIS
EARLIER IN SHOW, THE POWER OF
MIND-READING HAS LONG BEEN A
SCI-FI FASCINATION UPENDING
SOCIETY TO THE IDEA IF YOU COULD
READ MINDS THE GOVERNMENT WOULD
HAVE HUGE TOOLS OF POTENTIAL
CONTROL LIKE THAT FAMOUS TOM
CRUISE MOVIE EMERGENCYING A
GOVERNMENT THAT CAN SOLVE AND
PREVENT CRIMES BY READING
PEOPLE'S MINDS AND PLANS IN
ADVANCE.
>> WHAT'S COMING?
>> DOUBLE HOMICIDE, ONE MALE,
ONE FEMALE, KILLER MALE WHITE
40s.
>> SET UP A PERIMETER AND TELL
THEM WE ARE EN ROUTE.
I'M PLACING YOU UNDER ARREST FOR
THE FUTURE MURDER OF SARAH
MARKS.
>> WE SEE WHAT THEY SEE.
>> HASN'T BEEN A MURDER IN SIX
YEARS.
THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH THE
SYSTEM.
IT IS PERFECT.
>> WE ARE ARRESTING INDIVIDUALS
WHO HAVE BROKEN NO LAW.
>> BUT THEY WILL.
>> THE FACT THAT YOU PREVENTED
IT FROM HAPPENING DOESN'T CHANGE
THE FACT A MOVIE.
THIS NEW TECH IS RAISING WHAT WE
MIGHT CALL NON-FICTION
QUESTIONS.
"NEW YORK TIMES" PROPOSING
SCENARIOS LIKE A FUTURE WHERE A
PRIVATE UNVOICED IMPRESSION OF
YOUR BEST FRIEND'S NEW PARTNER
COULD BE SEEN.
SOMEONE COULD LISTEN WITHOUT
YOUR CONSENT OR KNOWLEDGE OR AS
WITH THE MOVIES A POLICE STATE
WHERE AUTHORITIES COULD BOTH.
ZEKE, I'D LIKE TO START WITH YOU
BIG PICTURE AND THEN WE CAN JUMP
INTO THE WEEDS.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THESE
BREAKTHROUGHS AS MENTIONED,
GREAT PROMISE FOR PEOPLE IN VERY
TOUGH INDIVIDUAL SITUATIONS,
MEDICAL BREAKTHROUGHS, BUT GREAT
CONCERNS OUT THERE, ESPECIALLY
WITH NO RULES OR LAWS YET ABOUT
WHAT ELSE CAN HAPPEN.
HOW DO YOU VIEW THIS?
>> WELL, I'M ACTUALLY A LITTLE
PESSIMISTIC ABOUT IT BECAUSE I
THINK WE HAVE GREAT INTENTIONS
TO HAVE THERAPEUTIC ADVANCES AND
TO REALLY HELP PEOPLE.
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT'S
MOTIVATING THIS RESEARCH.
BUT WE HAVE SEEN A LOT OF BIG
TECH GOING AND BEING OUT OF OUR
CONTROL.
AND BY OUR